Hello, my name is
Ronald J Daskovic, and welcome to our lesson
on definitions of AI. So what is a good definition
of Artificial Intelligence? You can kind of think of it as the simulation of human
intelligence in computers. Human intelligence is
made up of learning, reasoning and problem solving
based on that learning, and then self-correction when
they get something wrong. The way that Artificial
Intelligence is used today is to improve
services and products. Think about Siri, and
Cortana and Alexa and how those help us
in our everyday lives. Subset of AI is actually
Machine Learning. So what's a good definition
of Machine Learning? It starts with a set of data. You present that data
to an ML algorithm. The ML algorithm figures out the important
relationships and infers a result based on what it learns. That fundamentally differs from an expert system where the
programmer provides the rules. In the classic case
of an expert system, if we want to identify
a cat in a picture, we'll be very verbose in a
set of rules that we give to the computer to figure
out what makes up a cat. A cat has certain colors, a cat has whiskers, a cat has ears, a cat has sharp teeth, a cat has big eyes. With a Machine Learning
algorithm on the other hand, all we're going to do is provide lots of examples of pictures of cats that are labeled
cat and we're going to let it figure
out the rules itself. Machine Learning in itself
could be broken down into Supervised Learning
and Unsupervised Learning. In the example of cats that I was showing you just before, our pictures of cats that we present to our model
are actually labeled. It's labeled cat. We train the model, and the trained model
is used to infer to a new label on the new data. It is important to note that Machine Learning models are
always inference models. We're never 100 percent sure. A good example of
Supervised Learning is email spam detection. Is this e-mail a spam or not. Then we can have an application based on whether
it's a spam or not. Not give us that
message if it is. A good example of Unsupervised
Machine Learning on the other hand is when the
input data has no labels. What we're trying
to do here is get the algorithm to look for
patterns in the data, and then quite often, the patterns that we
find will be used for classification
problems in the future. A good example of Unsupervised Learning is
market basket analysis. Types of Supervised
Machine Learning that we have include regression, where your result is
going to be continuous, and a good example of that is, how late will the flight be? Classification on the other
hand is a discreet class, will your fight be
late? Yes or no. Or in a multivariate example, will your flight be early, will your flight be on time, or will your flight be late? Another good example of
Supervised Machine Learning is Content-based
Recommendation where we explicitly state
movie characteristics and we explicitly know
the user preferences. For example, I have rated science fiction movies
that I've seen previously highly so therefore if a movie has a stated
characteristic of being a science fiction movie, I'm probably going
to like that movie. Another example would
be a favorite actor or actress or a favorite
director for example. Types of Unsupervised
Machine Learning include clustering. Remember our data is not labeled in unsupervised examples, and what we want to do is discover inherent
groupings averted. An example of that
would be grouping customers by their
purchasing behavior. Another good example is Unsupervised Machine
Learning where we explore things that are
often bought together. An example of that would be the beer and diapers
urban legend, where a father goes into buy
diapers on Thursday nights, and he's also going to buy beer to get ready
for the weekend. It's a very highly contested
hypothesis by the way.