Let's discuss the choices you have when
you're thinking of using Azure for artificial intelligence. One of the common first decisions you
have to make when contemplating building a machine learning solution is,
do you want to build your own model or use a pre-trained model
provided as a service? And Azure offers components
that fill both of these needs. The first choice we have
is a cognitive API. They're broken down into
five overarching types. We've got knowledge that builds data
intelligence into your application. We've got got language, that does and
handles natural language processing. We've got search,
which uses Microsoft's Bing technology. We've got speech to include dictation,
transcription, voice command. And we've got vision, that provides
analysis of pictures and videos, and you could do things such as object recognition
and facial expression analysis. But what if these don't meet your needs? You can actually build your own. So either Azure Machine Learning Studio or
the Azure Machine Learning Service. Let's go ahead and compare and
contrast both of these right now. ML Studio is code-free. It's drag and drop. It is, however, proprietary. You can use Python or R to extend and enhance the functionality
that's built into ML Studio. And ML Studio was one of the first
services that would actually deploy your model as a web service. A newer, more flexible service is actually
is actually Azure Machine Learning. It operationalizes the process
of building AI solutions. You can develop locally, and
then once your model is developed. Azure Machine Learning Services
provide compute targets for training, packaging, validating, deploying and
monitoring your cluster, everything you need to do in
a data science life cycle. The primary way you access your
machine learning resources on Azure is by creating a workspace. Take a model that you like,
register it with a workspace after you've developed it on your local platform,
and then use the registered model and scoring scripts to deploy is Azure
container services for testing or as or Azure Kubernetes and
an IOT end point for production.