Let's discuss the need for a standardized approach
for AI project management. Why is this important? AI solutions are very important to meet business
needs these days. Business need to make
themselves more data-oriented, and use AI in their
decision-making processes. It just makes sense to implement a standardized approach to
the data science lifecycle and the overall management
of your AI team. Now we're going to
discuss some of the popular project
management solutions for data science
and data analytics. The first one we're
going to focus was knowledge discovery
in databases, first implemented back in 1996. Divides the process for finding knowledge in data into
the following steps. Understanding the problem
and data selection, followed by data cleaning,
and data transformation. Choosing the data mining task that makes sense
for your problem, choosing the data
mining algorithm based on their
characteristics of your data. Performing the data mining,
interpreting the results, and deciding how to act on the knowledge
that you discovered. This is a very
popular approach to both data analytics
and data science. We also have CRISP-DM which was published
shortly after KDD. There was an effort to update this project and this process
back in 2006 and 2008, and that nothing
never came out of it. One of the major contributors of data mining was Daimler-Benz, and IBM has implemented as
part of their SPSS product. CRISP-DM can be described as an iterative approach to
solving data mining issues. CRISP-DM has six phases:
business understanding, data understanding,
data preparation, data modeling, data evaluation, and deployment, and has specific processes
and deliverables based on each one of these steps. More recently,
Microsoft came out with a recommended team
data science process, this is Microsoft's approach to the data science lifecycle. So team-based approach to
data science projects, that provides resources for each one of the data lifecycle steps. Including business understanding, data acquisition
and understanding, modeling, deployment,
and customer acceptance. In the next video, we're
going to delve down into the Microsoft team
data science process, tasks, and goals in a
little more detail.