Welcome. This video implements the group Manager tasks
that are necessary to set up a project
and Azure DevOps. So the first thing we
needed to do is set up an Azure DevOps
organization for the group. This bring up a Chrome window. As you can see, I'm going to visualstudio.microsoft.com.
Let's click on sign-in. The first thing that a
great manager needs to do, is create a new organization, So let's click on create
new organization. This window comes up. So let's name our Azure
DevOps organization. We're going to pick Central US. So the second step is to create a default to
a common group project, and that's where we're
going to do here. So let's set a project
name group common, and we're going to
create project. So the third step, is to set all the
repositories that we need. So we're going to create a
group common repository, and we're going to create
a team repository, and we're going to create a specific project
repositories as well. Let's click on repos. What
we're going to do next here, we're going to rename the default group
common repository to our group project template, which we're going to click
on Manage repositories, and we're going to
rename our repository. I'm going to rename it to
group project template. Since we're on the
Repositories page, add a new repository, select Git as the type, and the repository name
that we're going to create is going to
be group utilities. Then we're going to click Create. So you can see we've added a group utilities on
the management page. The next step is to import
the official team data science project templates into the group repositories that
we just created earlier. So let's click on
GroupProjectTemplate. So notice, we can
Cloud to our computer, where we can push an existing repository from the command line, but what I want to do is
important Repository. The URL that I want to clone is https://github.com/Azure/Azure-TDSP-ProjectTemplate.git. Let's click input. Let's do the same thing for the group
utilities repository. Again, we're going to
import our repository. So my clone URL is https://github.com/Azure/Azure-TDSP-Utilities.git. If you need a set of permissions from the group
common project page, hover over the group common
name and click on the gear, and then we can come
over here to teams, and you can see that we have
a group common one team. We can add different
functions and add different permissions to the different
teams that we create. So the permissions that we have include Build Admin,
Contributors, Project Administrators,
Projects Validators, Readers, and Group Commoners. So these are the different
group names that I have, and here's your description
of each one of them and do. If you needed to add additional
people to your team, you would add them
to groups here. So in review, we set up an Azure DevOps
organization for the Group. We created a template
project in Azure DevOps. We created the
required repository to include a project
template and utilities. We imported the official
TDSP tablets into the group repositories instead of necessary membership
and permissions.