Let's come to the
steps that had a ploy in model we've registered with Azure in docker containers reset. In a new notebook. The first thing that
we needed to do is connect to our workspace. So we've got a
workspace item here. Just go ahead and look at the references of this workspace. So WSC workspace for question
mark and do a Shift Enter. So notice that our workspace call requires our subscription ID, our resource group,
our workspace name. The workspace class manages the interactions with the Azure Machine Learning workspace, provides convenient
methods for manipulating workspace and enumerating
objects within. Here's all the parameters associated with this
particular call. I'll put you a workspace
dot and Tab complete. Notice we got compute
targets we can reference, we've got create,
we got datasets, we got datastores, we got
environments we can set up, we've got experiments
we can set up. What we're going to do
is we're connect to an existing workspace
from a config. So we're going to do a
workspace dot com from config. As you can see here, if we look at the references to this, workspace from config once
the path that config file was auth and logger and filename. Just go ahead and insert a cell and we'll get to our path. So if we do a bang ls
dash al right here at my Azure notebook reference, they have a dot Azure
ML subdirectory. So clicking this dot Azure
and our subdirectory, notice that I've got my ws underscore couldn't
figure out json. Let's go ahead and take
a look at that as well. So we did a bank cat of w of dot azureml slash ws
underscore config dot json. Number, I has
subscription number, it has lqa workspace
one which referenced, has also our resource
group in there. In this case it's AI demos. So I'll just go ahead and
complete this reference. Uncomment this line. Yeah, lets go ahead going to
do a dot com from config. Enter path is going
to be dot azureml slash ws config dot json. Let's go ahead and run
that. Then look at the workspace that
comes back as well. Notice that it has you perform an interactive authentication. So let's go ahead
and go to this site. It has its entering code
and here's the code. Let's click on Next. Pick an account. It tells me I've signed into the Cross-platform Command
Line Interface application. So go ahead and
close this window. Notice that we have a workspace. The name of the workspace
is lqai workspace one. The subscription to the
workspace is b seven a seven seven e blah blah blah. We've got a resource
group as well. So this is a successfully
connected workspace