Hi, I'm Dan Mbanga with AWS
Training and Certification. Welcome to our introduction
to Artificial Intelligence. I have been with AWS
for four years and I'm currently responsible
for Business Development in Machine Learning
and Deep Learning. As part of the Business
Development team in Amazon AI, I have contributed to helping our customers bringing
their strategy from conception to realization
on the AWS environment. In this video, you will learn what Artificial Intelligence is, how it adds value to
different businesses, and how Amazon uses
AI in its products. We'll look at a use case where AI plays an important role, and you'll learn about
some AWS services that you can use to develop
an AI ready application. Simply stated, AI is intelligent
behavior by machines, that means any device
that can perceive its environment and take
actions accordingly, has AI. By using AI, a machine can mimic cognitive
human functions, like learning and
problem-solving. A common example of using Artificial Intelligence is giving machines the ability to scan and interpret their
physical environment, so that they can handle moving around and even up
and down the stairs. To make the machines act
and react like humans, we need to provide them with information from the real world, in order to mimic
human intelligence AI relies on something called
knowledge engineering. Knowledge engineering is the key component of AI research, machines with AI are expected to solve problems
like humans would. To do that, machines need extensive knowledge
of the real world. In other words, they need
to understand things like the relationships between
objects and situations, the properties of an event, cause and effect, and more. This data is then processed and fed to software
programs that in turn analyze the data and come up with decisions for
a particular problem, the way humans do. In short, the goal is to transfer human expertise
to a software program, that can take in the
same data and come to the same conclusions
as humans would. This process of feeding data to a software program and coming up with human-like decisions is also known as the modeling process. The model, which is basically
your software algorithm is consistently refined
until its decisions are close to those a
human would come up with. If the decision for a
particular problem is inconsistent with what a
human decision would be, then we go back to the model and debug it
until we improve it. As you might expect, this is an iterative process. AI presents us with new possibilities and
promotes growth in business, all kinds of companies
are using AI to innovate. Companies are making
significant investment to improve their products
based on user satisfaction, feedback, trends and more, and they are using AI to do it. Here are a few examples of
how AI is being used today, detecting and deterring
security threats and fraud, resolving users technology issues through automated call
center or chatbot, automating repeatable tasks
such as payroll, data entry, and audit, anticipating users' actions and
providing recommendations, monitoring social media comments, and tailoring advertising
content as per search trends. Once you start learning about AI, you start seeing terms like Machine Learning
and Deep Learning. Machine Learning also called ML and Deep Learning
also called DL, are really subsets of AI. You can create an AI system with the help of ML and DL algorithms, for example a software program to predict user
actions and suggest recommendations or a
system that understands thoughts and sentences spoken
by a human like Alexa. Let's talk about these fields and how they differ
from each other. Machine Learning is
often deployed where explicit programming is
too rigid or impractical. Unlike regular computer code, Machine Learning uses
data to generate statistical code that will
output the right result, based on the pattern recognized from previous examples of input. Machine Learning starts
with the data it already has about a situation. It processes data
using algorithms to recognize patterns of a
behavior and outcomes, it then interprets those patterns to predict the future outcomes. These predictions are
used to make a decision about the next step for the
Machine Learning to take. That decision produces results, which are then evaluated and
added into the pool of data, the new data would
influence the predictions and subsequent decisions
made going forward, this is how Machine
Learning learns over time. Machine Learning can make
predictions from huge datasets, optimize utility functions,
and extract hidden patterns and structures from the
datasets by classifying data. This enables a
software program to learn and make predictions
in the future. Deep Learning takes Machine
Learning a step further. Rather than telling the machine what features it
needs to look for, Deep Learning enables
the machine to define the features
it needs to look for itself based on the
data it's being provided. In this example, traditional Machine
Learning requires you to tell the machine how
to differentiate between a rectangle and a circle. Deep Learning on the other hand, shows machines several
examples of rectangles. It analyzes those examples and infers common features
that define a rectangle. At this point, it
can identify on its own whether it's
looking at a rectangle. In the same way our brains process information
using neurons, Deep Learning processes
information using similar but artificial
processing structures known as artificial
neural networks. It builds these structures
from the data it analyzes, and then infers features about its subject matter
based on the data. Then it weighs those features according to certainty
and commonality, and organizes them into layers of hierarchies and relationships
with each order. To return to the circle
and rectangle example, if the Deep Learning
machine looks at its reference data on
what a rectangle is, it can infer that
rectangles are built from four sides at right angles. Unlike Machine Learning, the Deep Learning
machine doesn't have to be told to look for the
number or angle or sides, instead, it recognizes
the sides as a common feature of the
reference data on its own. It can then look at the
big blue rectangle, see that it has four
sides at right angles, and determine with
strong certainty that it's a rectangle. It can also determine that the purple square is
probably a rectangle, since it also has four
sides at right angles, even though its four sides
appear to be equal and it's not of a color that is included in
the reference data. To help understand the
differences between AI, Machine Learning,
and Deep Learning, let's go through a very
high-level example of how these three might be applied to common
task of facial recognition. In this example, an Artificial
Intelligence wouldn't necessarily know that it was
looking at three people, unless it has been
thought what to look for in order to spot people. This requires a lot
of trial and error on the part of the developers
creating the algorithm, and it doesn't involve
the machine having to learn anything about
what humans look like, other than what the developers
tell it to look for. The machine may be provided with the ability to identify
head shapes or skin tones, but without the ability to learn, the machine could fail simply because of the wide range of diversity in what
humans look like. For instance, it might not recognize a person
because of a beard, which could generate
a false negative. With Machine Learning however, you can give the machine
a rough framework for what a person looks like and the ability to
iteratively process and learn other human appearances
through experience. So here the machine can recognize the figure
in the middle, since it's the closest to the
figure example it already knows with a similar facial
shape and hair shape. Once it confirms that these new appearance
is a person's face, it becomes more confident
in its ability to recognize humans based on
facial and hair shape, but less confident
in brown hair color. With this new information, it might now be able to recognize person three as its
confidence in facial shape is high enough to
overcome its lack of knowledge in other areas such as hair-shape and skin tone. But because the machine
was not prepared to recognize facial
hair ahead of time, it still doesn't have the ability to
recognize person one. That's why deep learning is such a popular choice
for facial recognition. With deep learning, the
machine is provided lots of facial
reference data upfront, and unlike traditional
Machine Learning or AI, it isn't always told exactly
what features to look for. It uses it's highly advanced data
processing capabilities and neural networks to derive the important features
it needs to look for from the data itself. Rather than the
developers telling the machine ahead of time
how to recognize specific, how to define things
like facial hair, the machine simply looks
for the common features that define all of the
humans in this data, and looks for those in
the things that it sees. In other words, the
machine defines the essential features of its subject rather
than the developer. That's what distinguishes
deep learning from the traditional
machine learning. Now that we understand
what AI is, let's talk about how to establish an effective
AI strategy. You can establish an
effective AI strategy in your organization with the help of fast computing environment, data gathered from various
sources such as social media, browsing trends and more, and advanced learning algorithms. Let's start with the data. More data means better analytics and better analytics
results in better products. Better products means more users and that in turn generates
more data for you. This in simple terms is
the flywheel for data. You can gather data
from a number of sources like clickstream
and user activity, then you can analyze it
using tools like Hadoop, and Spark, and Amazon
Elastic search surveys. Using the analysis, you can feed the AI and
machine learning algorithms to form pattern recognitions and
generate predictions. Then, you can use those
predictions to make your products better and
drive more users do it. By using a combination
of programming models, algorithms, data, and hardware acceleration with infrastructure such as GPUs, you can develop a framework
that helps with AI enabled features like
image understanding, speech recognition, natural language
processing, and autonomy. These combination of
programming models, algorithms, and data is usually what forms the basis of machine learning and deep learning frameworks, and the underlying
hardware infrastructure supports the frameworks. Today, AI is being used
all across Amazon. On amazon.com, users see recommendations suggested by Amazon's recommendation engine, which improves their
shopping experience. We also use AI to spot trends in the customer's experience
so that we can develop new products and
enhance existing products. In the fulfillment and logistic departments,
robots pick, pile, sort, and move boxes around so that they can
be shipped to customers. Our employees used to have
to walk miles each day. By using AI, we save time and free up our staff to serve
more customers faster. Now AWS is making AI
tools broadly available so that businesses can innovate and improve
their products. Amazon Web Services offers a
range of services in AI by leveraging Amazon's
internal experience with AI and machine learning. These services are separated here according to four layers, AI services, AI platforms, AI frameworks, and
AI Infrastructure. They organize from
the least complex to the most complex going
from top to bottom. Let's take a brief look
into each of these layers. Our AI services are each built to handle specific common AI tasks. These services enable
developers to add Intelligence to their
applications through an API called to
pre-train services rather than developing
and training their own deep learning models. Amazon Recognition
makes it easy to add image analysis for
your applications. With recognition, you can detect specific objects, scenes, and faces like celebrities and identify inappropriate
content in images. You can also search
and compare faces. Recognitions API enables
you to quickly add sophisticated deep
learning-based visual search and image classification
to your applications. Amazon Polly is a service that turns texts into lifelike speech, allowing you to create
applications that talk and build entirely new categories
of speech enabled product. Amazon Polly's
text-to-speech service uses advanced deep learning
technologies to synthesize speech that
sounds like human voice. Amazon Lex is a
service for building conversational interfaces
into any application using voice and text. It provides automatic speech
recognition for converting speech-to-text and natural
language understanding to recognize the
intent of the text. That lets you build applications
with highly engaging user experiences and life-like conversational
interactions. The AI platforms layer of the
stack includes products and frameworks that are designed to support custom AI related tasks, such as training and Machine Learning model
with your own data. For customers who
want to fully manage platform for building models
using their own data, we have Amazon Machine Learning. It's designed for developers
and data scientists who want to focus
on building models. The Platform removes the undifferentiated
overhead associated with deploying and managing
infrastructure for training and hosting models. It can analyze your data, provide you with suggested
transformations for the data, train your model,
and even help you with evaluating your
model for accuracy. Amazon EMR is a flexible, customizable, and manage big
data processing platform. It's a manage solution
in that it can handle things like scaling and
high availability for you. Amazon EMR does not require
a deep understanding of how to set up and
administer Big Data Platforms, you get a preconfigured cluster ready to receive your
analytics workload. It is built for any Data
Science Workload not just AI. Apache Spark is an open-source, distributed processing
system commonly used for Big Data workloads. Apache Spark utilizes
in-memory caching and optimize execution for fast performance and it supports general
batch processing, Streaming Analytics,
Machine Learning, graph database, and
ad hoc queries. It can be run and managed
on Amazon EMR clusters. The AI frameworks and infrastructure layers are for expert machine learning
practitioners. In other words,
for the people who are comfortable building
deep learning models, training them, doing predictions, also known as inference, and getting the data from the models into
production applications. The underlying
infrastructure consists of Amazon EC2 P3 instances, which are optimized for machine learning
and deep learning. Amazon EC2 P3 instances provide powerful NVIDIA GPUs to
accelerate computations, so that customers can
train their models in a fraction of the time
required by traditional CPUs. After training, Amazon EC2 C5 compute optimize and aim for
general-purpose instances. In addition to GPU
based instances, are well-suited for running inferences with the
training model. AWS supports all the major
deep-learning frameworks and makes them easy to
deploy without AWS, deep-learning Amazon
machine image, which is available for
Amazon Linux and Ubuntu, so that you can create managed, automatically
scalable clusters of GPUs for training and
inference at any scale. It comes pre-installed
with technologies like Apache MX net, tenser flow, Cafe and Caffe2 and auto-populate Machine Learning software such as the Anaconda package
for data science. Now let's go through
a few use cases. Almost all industry domains are now innovating with AWS AI. For example, for
fraud dot net uses Amazon Machine Learning to support its Machine
Learning models. The company uses
Amazon DynamoDB and AWS Lambda to run code without provisioning
and managing servers. Fraud.net also uses Amazon
Redshift for data analysis. What are the benefits that
they get from that setup? Fraud.net lunches and trains
Machine Learning models in almost half the time it
took on other platforms. It reduces complexity and makes sense of emerging
Fraud patterns. It saves customers about a
million dollars each week. To summarize, you can
create an impact in your business by automating
repetitive and manual tasks, engaging customers and optimizing product quality using AI. I hope you learned a
little something and we'll continue to explore
all the courses. I'm Dan Banger with AWS AI
and thanks for watching.