Hi. I'm Kirsten Dupart with AWS Training and Certification. Welcome to this
introductory course on Amazon Machine Learning. I've been with Amazon
for a year and a half, and I'm currently responsible for curriculum development within the AWS Training and
Certification organization. I'll begin this course with an overview of machine learning, and we'll talk about how data
plays an important role. After the overview, we'll discuss an innovative
way to build smart applications and walk
through a few use cases, and then we'll wrap up
with a discussion of the AWS frameworks and services you can use for machine
learning applications. Machine learning is a subset
of artificial intelligence. It helps you use historical data to make better
business decisions. Machine learning is also a process where
machines take data, analyze it to
generate predictions, and use those predictions
to make decisions. Those predictions
generate results, and those results are used to
improve future predictions. Machine learning can make
predictions from huge datasets. It can also optimize utility
functions and extract hidden patterns and
structures from those datasets by
classifying data. This enables a
software program to learn and make predictions
in the future. Machine learning enables you to establish a cycle of improvement using the data you
collect from things like clickstreams,
purchases, and likes. Machine learning is
used in a number of ways across a number
of industries. For example, it can be used to detect fraudulent
transactions, filter spam emails, flag
suspicious reviews, and so on. You begin by mining
large amounts of data to identify patterns among
the card transactions. With these patterns, you can
train the machine learning model to flag fraudulent
transactions. It can also be used to
personalize content for users by recommending content and
predictive content loading. Machine learning can be used
for targeted marketing, matching customers with
offers they might like, choosing marketing campaigns, and cross-selling or upselling items. Machine learning
can also be used to automate categorisation
of documents such as matching
hiring managers and resumes by learning to
understand written content. It can be used in customer
service to provide predictive routing
of customer emails based on the content
and the sender, as well as social media
listening capabilities. Machine Learning systems discover hidden patterns in data, and use these patterns to
predict patterns in the future. For example, if you're
analyzing retail data and a product name contains
words like jeans or jacket, then this product category
likely belongs to a parallel. Machine learning systems
learn from examples in the same way that children
learn language or patterns. It can group data into a summary, and it can also define data in a more granular concise way. Think of machine learning as a combination of
methods and systems. These methods in systems predict new data based
on observed data, extract hidden structure
from the data, summarize data into
concise descriptions, optimize an action given a cost function
and observed data, and adapt based on observed data. The field of machine learning
is often classified into the following broad categories:
supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and
reinforcement learning. In supervised learning,
the inputs to the model including the example outputs
also known as labels, are known and the model learns to generalize the outputs
from these examples. In unsupervised learning,
the labels aren't known. The model finds patterns in structure from the
data without any help. In reinforcement learning, the model learns by
interacting with its environment
and learns to take action to maximize
the total reward. In supervised learning,
the inputs to the model in the example
outputs are provided, and the model learns
to generalize the outputs from these examples. The human teachers
experience is used to tell the model which outputs are
correct and which are not. This doesn't mean
that the teacher has to be physically present, only that the teachers'
classifications must be present. With the help of a
large training dataset, the model learns
from its error and changes its weight to reduce
its prediction error. In classification, the output variable is
a category like color, which could be red,
blue, or green, and it results in true or false for a particular question. In regression, the output
variable is a number or a value like weight,
dollars, or temperature. In unsupervised learning
which is also called self-organization,
there's no teacher. It's based solely on
local information. Here, the model
uses only the data presented to the network
without any labels, and it detects the
emerging properties of the whole dataset. The model then
constructs patterns from the available information
without any pre-trained data. In clustering, the model
discovers groupings in the data like grouping customers based on their
purchasing behavior. In association, the
model discovers rules that govern
large chunks of data, for example customers
who buy product A, also tend to buy product B. In reinforcement learning,
a software agent determines the ideal behavior within a specific context for
a particular problem. The agent takes the input and decides the best action
for the problem, and then based on the
results of the action, the agent than receives simple reward feedback to allow it to learn
from its behavior. The agent is encouraged
to select an action that maximizes the
reward in the long-term. This type of machine
learning algorithm is inspired by behavioral
psychology. Part of getting useful
information out of your Machine Learning system is having a smart application. Your smart application will
use machine learning to analyze your data and
predict future outcomes, which are necessary to
make business decisions. This can include using
machine learning for business questions
such as predicting customer trends like whether customers will use a
particular product of yours, or to determine if an
order is fraudulent. Based on the customer
data you already have, you can find patterns in
the data and then generate predictions to drive your product features and improvements. While machine learning is
a rapidly growing field with an enormous upside
for companies to use, there are some challenges
to take into consideration when building your
machine learning based smart application. For instance, some machine
learning technology can be complex to use and
implement appropriately, requiring high levels of expertise that can take
time to hire or develop. Another challenge is finding the right technology that scales to the needs of customers. Finally, being able to tie machine learning to a business
application can take time. In other words, refining your models so that
your product app can use that model productively can
require a lot of time. These are the three primary considerations you should take into account when building your machine learning
application. One way to help address
these challenges could be to use Amazon
Machine Learning. We have offerings in Amazon
Machine Learning and Spark on Amazon
Elastic MapReduce or Amazon EMR for customers
who want to fully manage platform for building
models using their own data. For developers and data scientists who want to
focus on building models, the platform services remove the
undifferentiated overhead associated with deploying and managing infrastructure
for training and hosting. Amazon Machine Learning support supervised machine
learning approaches. These enable you to predict specific machine learning tasks such as binary classification, multiclass classification,
and regression. Binary classification
predicts the answer to a yes or no question. For example, is this
email spam or not spam? Is this product a book or a toy, or is this review written
by a customer or a robot? Multiclass classification predicts the correct
category from a list. For example, is this product
a movie or clothing? Is this movie a romantic,
comedy, documentary, or thriller, or which category of products is most
interesting to this customer? Regression predicts the
value of a numeric variable. For example, what will the temperature be
in Seattle tomorrow? Or for this product, how many units will sell? Lastly, how many days before the customer stops
using the application? At a broad level, these
are the steps involved in building a smart application using Amazon Machine Learning. To train a model,
you need to create a data source object
pointing to your data, explore and understand your data, and transform data
and train your model. To then evaluate and
optimize the model, you need to understand
model quality and adjust model interpretation. After that, you can retrieve batch and real-time predictions. Let's take a quick look at a case study for using
Amazon Machine Learning. Zillow is a company that provides home valuations online
in the United States. When the company
needed to provide more timely home
valuations for customers, they decided to run their
home valuation tool using Amazon Kinesis for
data ingestion, and Apache Spark on Amazon EMR for data
processing and analysis. Now, Zillow runs its
machine learning tasks in hours instead of days, and it provides more
accurate valuation data too. I hope you learned a
little something and we'll continue to explore
our other courses. Again, I'm Kirsten Dupart with AWS Training and Certification,
thanks for watching.