Hi. I'm Patty Raymond for Amazon Web Services,
Training and Certification. For the next few minutes, I'm going to walk you
through a quick overview of Amazon Transcribe. Amazon Transcribe is an automatic speech
recognition service also known as ASR, that's designed to make it easy for developers
to incorporate speech-to-text capabilities
into their applications. In this course, I'll highlight the features of
Amazon Transcribe, talk a bit about how it works, and provide a few examples
of common use cases. I'll also tell you how to get started and give a
quick demonstration. Historically, people
saved most data in structured formats that were
relatively easy to search. For example, information entered into databases via forms or saved and spreadsheets
is pretty easy to analyze even at
very high volumes. Increasingly, we capture data in less structured
formats that are more difficult to analyze
on a large scale. In particular, the speech in
audio and video files needs to be recorded as text before it can be
searched or categorized. Traditionally,
converting audio content to text has required a lot
of human intervention. Someone has to play back the
recording and capture all of the speaker's words
in text form and then review and edit the
transcribed content. Even with the benefit of
a speech-to-text tool, a lot of editing and
formatting is required. This is particularly true
for outputs that require high levels of accuracy and readability like video subtitles. The high level of
effort to manually convert these media to
text means that only the most critical items
are transcribed and valuable information
may be overlooked. Amazon Transcribe can help you address these
potential barriers. Amazon Transcribe is a fully managed and continually
trained ASR service that accepts common audio
formats including WAV, MP3, MP4, and FLAC, and can accurately transcribe both low fidelity and
high fidelity audio. This makes it a natural fit for use cases such as
transcribing customer service calls into
analyzable data or generating subtitles for videos with a high level of accuracy. Amazon Transcribe
uses deep learning to provide accurate and
quick transcriptions. It was designed to make
it easy for you to get even greater accuracy and usefulness from the
transcribed output. For example, the output is not just one long
uninterrupted string of text. Instead, Amazon
Transcribe uses machine learning to add in punctuation and
grammatical formatting. So the texts you get back
is immediately usable. Amazon Transcribe also
timestamps every word, which makes it easy to align subtitles for close captioning. It also makes it easy to index. Transcripts include
confidence levels for each word of the
transcribed output, making it easy to determine where more editing or quality
assurance may be required. Amazon Transcribe also
helps you mitigate issues with source audio
to improve accuracy. For example, you can upload custom vocabulary
that can help improve the accuracy if the content
you're transcribing has industry-specific terms like
medical or legal terms. You can choose the language
of the source file. The supported
languages are listed, and Amazon Transcribe
attribute speech to different speakers to make it easier to interpret the output. Because Amazon Transcribe was designed to be easy
for developers to use, there are only a few
steps to get started. You don't need to understand
how the underlying models work and you don't need to build your own machine
learning models. You invoke the service via API and with a few lines of code, you're ready to transcribe
files on Amazon S3. You can easily initiate the
transcription operation via the AWS management console and you can test the service
via the console too. Amazon Transcribe offers
secure communication between the service and your applications
through SSL encryption. You can access your
transcriptions via assigned URLs. You can also make sure
that information is kept secure and confidential by controlling access
to Amazon Transcribe through AWS IAM policies. The service integrates
easily with other AWS services such
as Amazon Comprehend, Amazon ES, Amazon Translate,
and Amazon Athena. You can easily leverage powerful deep learning
models combined with highly scalable index
searching and analysis tools to reap high-value from your
audio and video content. Here are a few examples. A call center uses Amazon
Transcribe to produce transcriptions of
low-fidelity phone calls with high accuracy. The center uses Amazon Comprehend on the transcribed data to identify key phrases and customer sentiments so that
they can classify the calls. They use Amazon Athena
to query the data and Amazon QuickSight to visualize the results and analyze trends. The Human Resources
Department uses Amazon Transcribe to generate transcriptions of meetings
and training sessions, then indexes the results
using Amazon ES. Internal stakeholders
can quickly search for content on demand to
locate topics of interest. A video production business uses Amazon Transcribe to produce transcriptions of audio
tracks for subtitles. Limited editing is done
on the output files and the quality assurance
team can focus on sections that have
lower confidence ratings. Using the timestamps in
the transcript file, they can easily align the
captions with the video. They use Amazon
Translate to convert the transcript into
additional languages. You can even translate
conversations. Use Amazon Transcribe to generate the transcription
of the speaker's message. Use Amazon Comprehend to recognize the language
of the speaker, and use Amazon
Translate to translate the message into the
receiver's language. Then, use Amazon Polly to read the translated
message to the recipient. To get started, you'll need to save the file you
want to transcribe on Amazon S3 stored in a bucket
with the proper permissions. The files must be in one of
four formats; FLAC, MP3, MP4, or WAV, and they must
be less than two hours long. For best results, source files should use lossless compression, FLAC or WAV, and recording should be done in a
low-noise environment. You'll want to limit
crosstalk too. You'll need an AWS account with an IAM user who has full access to the
transcribed API calls, and you should be
familiar with the CLI. You'll also need a text editor. We also recommend that you review the developer's
guide which you can find in the AWS documentation
under Amazon Transcribe. For the demonstration, I'll use the AWS management
console to start a job, verify that it's completed, and then review the results. On the AWS management console, select "Amazon Transcribe." Then click the "Try
Amazon Transcribe" button to open the "Create
Transcription Job" dialogue. Give your job a relevant name. For this demonstration,
I'm going to use Gettysburg Address test. Paste or type the location
of the source file on Amazon S3 that you
want to transcribe. Select the source language. For this demonstration,
I'll use English, and select the format
of your source file. For this example, it's MP3. Optionally, I can specify
the media sampling rate. This rate must match the sampling rate of the
associated media content. Sampling rates between
8000 hertz and 48,000 hertz are supported
by Amazon Transcribe. Once I fill that in, I click the "Create" button and my job has been submitted
for processing. Once the request
has been submitted, I can check the
status of the job by selecting "Transcription Jobs"
from the menu on the left. This opens a list
of available jobs. You may see older transcripts. That's because the service makes transcription results
available for 90 days. In the status column, I can see that my
job is in progress. If I click on the
job name itself, I can review the details
of the job and also review or copy the sample JSON
request for this job. When the status of
the job is completed, I'll be able to select
the output URL from the job details page and
review the transcribed text. The output file is placed in an S3 bucket and is only
accessible with assigned URI. For added security,
the URI is valid for only a few minutes after you initially request
the job results. Just taking a quick
look at the transcript, I can see that the content
of my MP3 file has been transcribed with formatting
and punctuation, and I can see the timestamps and confidence levels for
each word in the file. In summary, Amazon Transcribe is a fully managed and continually trained ASR service that is designed to make it easy for
developers to incorporate accurate speech-to-text
capabilities into their applications. I hope you found
this introduction to Amazon Transcribe helpful, and that you're ready
to try it yourself. Please continue to explore
other related courses. I'm Patty Raymond for Amazon Web Services,
Training and Certification.