Hi. I'm Scott Gilbert with AWS Training
and Certification. Welcome to Amazon Rekognition. In this video, we will
discuss Rekognition, part of Amazon's machine
learning offerings. I will highlight how easy
it is to get started with Rekognition as well as give an introduction to
its programmatic use. I've been with AWS for just
under two years and I'm currently responsible
for delivering training across North America. As part of the training team, I've contributed to
delivering classes as well as assisting in the
creation of new content. Rekognition is one of AWS's offerings in
artificial intelligence. Rekognition allows you to
easily analyze images. Your applications
can make calls to Rekognition allowing
you to recognize faces, landscapes, and even
the mood of a person. In this video, I will introduce to you the service Rekognition. I will talk to you about the
benefits of the service as well as go through the key
features of Rekognition. I will step through a couple
of use cases of Rekognition, highlighting just how
powerful the service can be. I will end this presentation with a quick demonstration
of the service, and I hope to have
you logging into AWS to use this as well. The main benefits of
Rekognition are it's ease of use as well
as its low cost. With zero experienced in
developing machine learning, you can load an image into Rekognition and it will be
analyzed automatically. You can take
advantage of the APIs we've created to
automate this analysis. Best of all, as a
managed service, Amazon will handle auto-scaling of Rekognition allowing you to potentially send
thousands of images an hour for analysis
through recognition. The key features of Rekognition are object detection where the engine is able to accurately determine what isn't an image, facial analysis,
facial comparison, as well as facial recognition. The Engine is able
to determine mood, the number of faces, as well as differentiating different faces from each other. All processed images give
you a confidence score, giving you the ability to
drop low confidence processes or perhaps flag them for
secondary or even manual review. Let's look at a few use
cases for recognition. Here, I hope to showcase
just how useful and powerful the service can
be for your applications. Searchable image libraries
can be useful for many cases such as real estate agent looking to take a picture of properties. They can then upload these
images to an S3 bucket. This upload automatically
triggers a lambda function. The Lambda function
calls Rekognition which pulls the image
from the S3 bucket, and analyze this image
and returns the image and labels along with the
confidence scores for each label into Elastic Search. Users can now search through the labels
to find the images. This makes searching for
keywords such as a garage or yard far far easier for any
real estate application. Another use case would
be image moderation. This functionality can greatly
assist foreign moderators ensuring that inappropriate
content is not posted. As a user uploads an image, the object upload triggers
a lambda function. Lambda calls Rekognition which examines the image
for the content. If there is no inappropriate
content found, the picture is immediately
posted and viewable by users. If there is inappropriate
content detected, the post is either rejected and the image is removed
from storage. If the confidence scores
are not high enough, either way it can also
send the image for manual review ensuring that only approved content is shown. Sentiment analysis can be
quite useful for many users. From retailers wanting to
track the effectiveness of sales or demographic
information of the shoppers, to a company that just wants to ensure that their
workforce is happy. Live images are captured via On-premise camera or
user uploaded image. The application will send the images to Rekognition
for our analysis. The app stores the
information in S3 and Redshift will allow them
to receive this data in. Quick site can then be used for regular analysis of
the information, tracking the sentiment over time. All information can
then be placed into a weekly or monthly or even
quarterly marketing report to track the effectiveness
of your ongoing sales, upgrades to the stores, or just changes in your
overall merchandise over time. I'm now going to step through the Rekognition engine on AWS. I hope to highlight just
how easy this is to use. So I've logged into the
management console. Let's go ahead and load up
the Rekognition service. If you've recently
visited the Engine, you will see it here in your
recently visited Services. Otherwise, you can click on services and open up
the Rekognition Engine. You can access Rekognition
programmatically and use it's APIs to
analyze your images. You can download the SDK and run your programs or write programs
that utilize Rekognition. I'm just going to try the
demo to Rekognition to highlight just how easy it
is to analyze your images. As we pull up Rekognition, we have some stock images that are already
loaded into this. On the right, it will
show the results. You have the labels as well as the confidence score
for each label. There is, in fact, a skateboard, there's people in this image, and there's cars parked
on the side of the road. We want to expand this
a little bit more. We see automobiles,
vehicle, intersection. It is in fact on a
road all the way down to it's in a metropolis, there's SUVs and apartments. This is a stock image. Let's go ahead and try
to upload our own. Click on the "Upload"
button and select an image. Now, this is an image of Seattle. Our labels found are
architecture, city, downtown, high rise, skyscraper, as well as Metropolis. We have confidence scores
for all of these labels. This is, in fact, a architecture
is shown in a city. It is downtown. There
are multiple high rises. It is, in fact, in a Metropolis. This image is fairly easy. Let's look at another image. This is multiple people in here. We have people, humans,
clothing, overcoat. We want to go through
facial analysis. In this image, we are detecting a face from the
rest of the image. We want to load in. It is able to pull and
highlight where the faces are. Let's see if any of these
people are celebrities. Well, I know this
person is a celebrity. Let's go back to our old image. But unfortunately, none of the people in this
image are celebrities. So as you can see, Rekognition is quite easy to use. There are multiple tools multiple demos that
are available. I really hope that you
log on and try to play around with different images and the analysis of the images. In summary, Rekognition is a great tool in our machine
learning offerings. Rekognition gives
you the ability to run multiple forms of analysis on your images and
returns labels with confidence scores to ensure
the analysis is accurate. I hope you've learned a
little something and we'll continue to explore
our other videos. I'm Scott Gilbert, with AWS Training and Certification.
Thank you for watching.