Should I that I've created a workspace? Let's go ahead and use that workspace to
train one of our earlier sklearn models. From as your ml core import workspace, and we're going to call the workspace
that we created earlier. And now let's run a wsdl get details
to get the details of that workspace. So you can see we've got
our subscription ID. But I Resource Group and
our lqa, I workspace one. Got a recognizable name. We got a location. We've got a friendly name. We got our key Vault and
we got our storage account. So let's take this linear
regression example. We're going to train it locally and
then register it with Rai workspace. We're going to import numpy
as MP import pandas is p Import matplotlib py plot is PLT. We're going to look at
the Boston Housing data set again. I don't want to do a load Boston. We do a training test split. for muscular leader a bottle
of Port linear regression and we're looking at price per room
in order to do a fit on that. And let's get then go ahead and do a dump
of that into BH underscore LR P KL. So we're taking our price room
environmental variable that reference in our model and we're seeing that down
to a BH l r dot P KL file locally. You can see we are Creator BH underscore
l r dot P KL and let's go ahead and list our local directory now to make sure
that that BHL our packages in there. Then you can see that it is. if we do an LS Dash l You can see that it's the last thing that we particularly
created it and it is the correct time. So let's go ahead and
register this with her workspace. So we're going to go into import for
model. I'm going to do a model dot register. We're going to reference our workspace
reference our local model path. And we're going to name the bottle
Boston and housing LR so you can see that we registered our model. if I come over here, it was your and
we'll look at models and we do a refresh this we've got a Persian to over
Boston Housing LR that was created at 525. She get didn't say we can see that we
did successfully create a model and register a model. And now I can take that model and deploy
it to whatever deployments compute Target we want to and
then serve that up as a web. Based API. That's actually what we're going
to cover in the next chapter. So now open the register that model in our
workspace we can now call that model but another object. So in this case my model equals
model Works basic was ws and the name of the model that we created and
I could do a model dot download. This is initially going to error out. Because the BH L RP klrt exists,
so if I come over here and look at the documentation for the download
method, there's that we've got say exist. Okay equals false. Let's go ahead and change that exist. Okay to equals true and you can see if I do bang LS Dash l Exceed that it replaced RB H LR P KL
with one from this exact time. So this gives 1748 and it is 1748. So did replace the one
that was currently there. Let's go ahead and
get rid of this reference and finally make it to a my model dot delete. Pull up particular method reference for
this one. Delete this model from its
associated with space. Just go ahead and delete my bottle and
if we come over here. somebody very very fresh original
where you can see that we've I deleted the version to the box
that house until our Advocate. Delete this other one. If we wanted to hear in the UI as well,
so click on the check mark and click on delete if you want
to delete the other one.